Doc: Add topic and content for es security on by default (#13597)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/security/es-security.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[es-security-on]]
== {es} security on by default

{es} {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[security is on by default] starting in 8.0. 

> {es} is the certificate authority (CA), and it generates its own self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate at startup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, {es} is the certificate authority (CA), and it generates its own self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate at startup. 
```

> {es} {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[security is on by default] starting in 8.0. 
> {es} is the certificate authority (CA), and it generates its own self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate at startup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es} {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[security is on by default] starting in 8.0, and {es} therefore generates its own default self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates at startup. 
```

> {ls} must establish a secure connection using the SSL certificate before it can transfer data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For self-hosted {es} cluter, {ls} must establish a secure connection using the self-signed SSL certificate before it can transfer data. 
```

> Our hosted {ess} can handle these details for you. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our hosted {ess} uses standard publicly trusted certificates, and therefore setting a cacert is not necessary. 
```

.Hosted {ess} simplifies security
[NOTE]
=====
Our hosted {ess} on Elastic Cloud simplifies safe, secure communication between {ls} and {es}. 
When you configure the elasticsearch output plugin to use <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_id,`cloud_id`>> with either the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_auth,`cloud_auth` option>> or the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-api_key,`api_key` option>>, no additional SSL configuration steps are needed.

Examples:

> * `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "" cloud_auth => "" } }`
> * `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "" api_key => "" } }``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" cloud_auth => "<cloud auth>" } }`
* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" api_key => "<api key>" } }``
```

For more details, check out the
{logstash-ref}/connecting-to-cloud.html[Logstash-to-Cloud documentation].

{ess-leadin-short}
=====

[discrete]
[[es-security-onprem]]
=== Secure communication with an on-premise {es} cluster

If you are running {es} on your own hardware, you need to complete a few more steps to establish secure communication between {ls} and {es}.
You need to: 

> * Copy the self-signed certificate from {es} and save it to {ls}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Copy the self-signed CA certificate from {es} and save it to {ls}
```

* Configure the elasticsearch-output plugin to use the certificate

[discrete]
[[es-sec-copy-cert]]
==== Copy and save the certificate

> {es} generates a self-signed certificate when it starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es} generates a self-signed CA and creates its own SSL certificates when it starts.
```

{ls} needs its own copy of the self-signed certificate from the {es} cluster so that it can validate the certificate presented by {es}.

> Copy the self-signed certificate from {es} to {ls}. 

Author: ToDo: Add more details (and/or links) on how/where the user finds/obtains the ES cert.

> Copy the self-signed certificate from {es} to {ls}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the self-signed CA certificate from {es} to {ls}. 
```

Save it to a location that Logstash can access, such as `config/certs`. 

/////
ToDo: 
Verify location. 
I don't see an existing config/certs folder. 
If this is the location we'd like users to use, we should stub out a folder in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/tree/main/config. 
As always, there's a definite argument for consistency across deployments. 
/////

[discrete]
[[es-sec-plugin]]
==== Configure the elasticsearch output

Use the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch,`elasticsearch output`'s>> <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cacert,`cacert` option>> to point to the certificate's location. 

**Example**

[source,ruby] 
-------
output {
  elasticsearch {
    hosts => ["https://...] <1>
    cacert => '/etc/logstash/config/certs/ca.crt' <2>
  }

> }

Reviewer: The cacert should not be required when driving into cloud deployments as cloud certs should already be accepted as valid. 

Previously discussed with @jsvd in slack - see: https://elastic.slack.com/archives/C0D8VG3ND/p1638454114289000?thread_ts=1638452634.284800&cid=C0D8VG3ND

Reviewer: They will however, be required if driving into a self-hosted cluster

[discrete]
[[es-security-on]]
== {es} security on by default

> {es} {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[security is on by default] starting in 8.0.

Author: Not repeated info for users who link directly to this topic. Unlike blogs, we can't assume that people are working through docs linearly.

{es} generates its own default self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates at startup. 

For an on-premise {es} cluster, {ls} must establish a secure connection using the self-signed SSL certificate before it can transfer data.  
{ess} uses standard publicly trusted certificates, and therefore setting a cacert is not necessary.

.Hosted {ess} simplifies security
[NOTE]
=====
Our hosted {ess} on Elastic Cloud simplifies safe, secure communication between {ls} and {es}. 
When you configure the elasticsearch output plugin to use <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_id,`cloud_id`>> with either the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_auth,`cloud_auth` option>> or the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-api_key,`api_key` option>>, no additional SSL configuration steps are needed.

Examples:

* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" cloud_auth => "<cloud auth>" } }`
* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" api_key => "<api key>" } }``

For more details, check out the
{logstash-ref}/connecting-to-cloud.html[Logstash-to-Cloud documentation].

{ess-leadin-short}
=====

[discrete]
[[es-security-onprem]]
=== Secure communication with an on-premise {es} cluster

> If you are running {es} on your own hardware, you need to complete a few more steps to establish secure communication between {ls} and {es}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running {es} on your own hardware and your Elasticsearch cluster is using the default self-signed certificates (as opposed to being configured with publicly trusted certificates), you need to complete a few more steps to establish secure communication between {ls} and {es}.
```

You need to: 

* Copy the self-signed CA certificate from {es} and save it to {ls}
* Configure the elasticsearch-output plugin to use the certificate

[discrete]
[[es-sec-copy-cert]]
==== Copy and save the certificate

> On on-premise {es} cluster generates a self-signed CA and creates its own SSL certificates when it starts.
> {ls} needs its own copy of the self-signed certificate from the {es} cluster so that it can validate the certificate presented by {es}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default an on-premise {es} cluster generates a self-signed CA and creates its own SSL certificates when it starts. Therefore
{ls} needs its own copy of the self-signed CA from the {es} cluster in order for {ls} to validate the certificate presented by {es}.
```

Copy the {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html#stack-security-certificates[self-signed CA certificate] from the {es} `config/certs` directory.

Save it to a location that Logstash can access, such as `config/certs` on the {ls} instance. 

/////
ToDo: 
Verify location. 
I don't see an existing config/certs folder. 
If this is the location we'd like users to use, we should stub out a folder in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/tree/main/config. 
As always, there's a definite argument for consistency across deployments. 
/////

> 

Author: Should we stub out a `/certs` folder in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/tree/main/config?

.Hosted {ess} simplifies security
[NOTE]
=====
Our hosted {ess} on Elastic Cloud simplifies safe, secure communication between {ls} and {es}. 
When you configure the elasticsearch output plugin to use <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_id,`cloud_id`>> with either the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-cloud_auth,`cloud_auth` option>> or the <<plugins-outputs-elasticsearch-api_key,`api_key` option>>, no additional SSL configuration steps are needed.

Examples:

* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" cloud_auth => "<cloud auth>" } }`
* `output {elasticsearch { cloud_id => "<cloud id>" api_key => "<api key>" } }``

For more details, check out the
{logstash-ref}/connecting-to-cloud.html[Logstash-to-Cloud documentation].

{ess-leadin-short}
=====

[discrete]
[[es-security-onprem]]
=== Secure communication with an on-premise {es} cluster

If you are running {es} on your own hardware and using the Elasticsearch cluster's default self-signed certificates, you need to complete a few more steps to establish secure communication between {ls} and {es}.

You need to: 

> * Copy the self-signed CA certificate from {es} and save it to {ls}

Reviewer: For some reason this is not rendering properly in the preview

* Configure the elasticsearch-output plugin to use the certificate

These steps are not necessary if your cluster is using public trusted certificates. 

[discrete]
[[es-sec-copy-cert]]
==== Copy and save the certificate

By default an on-premise {es} cluster generates a self-signed CA and creates its own SSL certificates when it starts. 

> Therefore{ls} needs its own copy of the self-signed CA from the {es} cluster in order for {ls} to validate the certificate presented by {es}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore {ls} needs its own copy of the self-signed CA from the {es} cluster in order for {ls} to validate the certificate presented by {es}.
```
